[THEME MUSIC]
>> An historic observatory,
which played a key role in UFO
communication, has collapsed.
Will this spell the end for
interstellar UFO outreach?
This is Gaia News.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The iconic Arecibo
Observatory in Puerto Rico
has collapsed on itself.
The 1,000 foot wide radio
telescope, built in 1963,
had played a key role in
the astronomical discoveries
for years.
The observatory is perhaps,
best known for the 1974 Arecibo
Message, an interstellar
communication sent to the star
cluster M13 to demonstrate
the human capability
of communication with
extraterrestrials.
The observatory had fallen
into disrepair over the years.
In August, a cable snapped
causing a 100-foot gash
on the receiver platform.
In November, a
main cable snapped,
leading the National Science
Foundation to decommission
the famous observatory.
On December 1st,
the 900-ton receiver
fell onto the reflector
dish, effectively destroying
the observatory.
Astronomer and chief photo and
video analyst for the Mutual
UFO Network, Marc D'Antonio,
reflects on the observatory's
history and significance.
>> So Arecibo has been a
mainstay in the astronomical
community for many years.
It's maybe hard to believe,
but Arecibo was actually
first constructed as an
intercontinental ballistic
missile defensive site.
An installation
to help us prevent
an attack, oddly enough.
Later on, it became
a civilian site
where it then began making
strides in astronomy.
And it discovered, for instance,
that the planet Mercury, which
we thought was locked to the
sun with the same face facing
the sun all the time as it
went around the sun once
every 88 days.
It turns out that
it's not fully locked.
It actually has a
rotation of its own.
And so that was an
interesting discovery.
Actually, a very crucial
discovery for the solar system.
In 1974, astronomers
decided it was
worthwhile to show that
humans could send messages
to the stars.
We wanted to send a message out.
And the message that we wanted
to send out was, look, hi.
Here we are.
We're from Earth.
And basically, it was a
short little blocky message.
It looked like a video
game to most people
looking at the image
of what went out.
However, to an
advanced civilization,
they would have got
information like we're humans.
This is where we're
located in the galaxy.
Here's how many planets are in
our solar system, et cetera,
et cetera.
And it was, sort of, a greeting
card sent to the cosmos.
>> Since it was so damaged, was
the observatory worth saving?
>> Arecibo was one of only a few
installations that could also
do something else, which
was very important.
And that was up
in the reflector,
up in that receiver array, up
above the dish down below--
that receiver array
could actually
transmit down into the dish,
which could send out radar.
And that radar could get
imagery in very high resolution.
Something that the other
antennas around the world
can't do.
And we have to make up
for it by using things
like the Deep Space
Network, which
includes things like the
Goldstone radar antenna
and other antennas
around the world.
And then through a process
called very long baseline
interferometry, we
combine all those signals
into a final image.
And that kind of
technology is sort of where
radio astronomy is heading.
Because now we can make
use of multiple telescopes
to bring us an image,
rather than just one.
So yes.
The loss of Arecibo, it hurts.
However, we do have other
ways to accomplish the goals.
And the science will continue.
>> The loss of Arecibo
is a blow to astronomy,
but humankind will continue
to reach out to space.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.